We are overjoyed that you are among the millions around the world who are viewing this convention.
An infirm Bible student named Joyce, who lives in Southeast Asia, expressed her appreciation for these arrangements by saying,
with the convention being streamed online, I don't have to miss a single talk.
I can watch the program of the rest of the Brotherhood worldwide.
I am so thankful to Jehovah for this arrangement.
Perhaps you can relate to her expressions.
Thank you for the generous donations you have made online at donate.jw.org and by other means,
which help make these streaming services possible.
During these critical last days, many families lack the affection the Jehovah designed us to give and receive.
However, God's word contains principles that, when followed, lead to peace.
Resture you will enjoy the fine talks and dramatizations in this next symposium.
Brother Joel Dellinger, a helper to the service committee, will deliver the first talk,
follow the roadmap to family peace, show love and respect.
Family peace is precious.
It's even as the Bible proverb says, better is a piece of dry bread where there is peace than a house full of feasting along with quarreling.
But what exactly is family peace?
Someone might say, as long as we're not arguing, our families at peace.
But is that real peace?
We might think of two countries that we're fighting but have now agreed to a ceasefire.
Does the ceasefire mean that they've become real friends who love one another?
No.
We know that genuine peace takes more work.
That's true in the family as well.
Our Heavenly Father knows that the most satisfying family peace involves more than an absence of arguing.
It involves a family's well-being and unity.
Is such peace in a family today really possible?
Although none of us have a perfect family, the answer is yes.
While it requires work, perhaps breaking bad habits that disrupt peace and adopting new ones that promote it, those efforts are worth it.
In this symposium, we'll see how Bible principles can guide families to peace, just as a roadmap guides travelers to a beautiful destination.
In each of the talks, we invite you husbands, fathers, wives, mothers, children, teenagers to be the traveler who studies the map and then goes in the right direction.
The focus of our first talk is showing love and respect.
Why would you say these two qualities are so important to family peace?
Well, it's simple.
Because family members who love and respect one another feel secure and appreciated.
As a result, our relationships are warm, close, and peaceful.
Of course, showing love and respect can be a challenge these days.
In the following dramatization, notice why.
Irene, you look so handsome.
No, you look beautiful.
Those came out so nice.
Look at you.
Sorry, Olivia.
Are you okay?
Yeah, it's okay, Sue.
I'm so sorry, boys.
I'm all I've done. That was the last box.
Dad, are those a wedding photo?
Let me see.
Look at his.
Oh, you're not beautiful.
Olivia?
I know this is all new, baby.
Be patient.
Can I cut in?
Yeah, sure.
Thanks.
What's wrong?
Where's the desk?
We have to get rid of it.
This one's better for everyone.
You mean it's better for him?
For Max?
What are you saying?
What do you care?
He'll talk to me like that.
Get back here.
Hey, Olivia.
What do you think about the desk?
Come here, sweetie.
Come here.
So you never forget that I love you.
I hope you like it.
Today, every family faces challenges of some sort.
So let's consult our roadmap together.
In the Bible at Romans 12 and verse 10.
Would you read it with me, please?
That's Romans 12 and verse 10.
In brotherly love, have tender affection for one another.
In showing honor to one another, take the lead.
Now, what's the point?
Regardless of the role we play in the family,
each of us needs to treat our family members with love and respect.
We need to take the lead or initiative to do so.
To help us, let's consider four good habits
that all of us should work to develop more fully.
Habit number one.
Regularly express tender affection.
When conveyed with sincerity, expressions of affection
are like sunshine and water to plants.
They help everyone in the family grow and thrive.
In the video we just watched,
did you note how Olivia cherished her father's gift?
That green desk and his tender words?
He told her, so you never forget that I love you.
We also saw warm affection as the newly blended family
of Max and Irene looked at wedding photos.
That was encouraging.
Well, here's a question.
How are we doing an expressing tender affection in our family?
If that's not one of our strengths,
we might relate to a husband who mustered up the courage
to say, I love you to his wife.
It brought her to tears, tears of joy,
and she said this,
I love you too,
but this is the first time in 25 years you've said it like that.
Well, what's the point?
We don't want to wait that long, of course.
But even an awkward attempt at expressing affection in our family
is an act of love,
and it can do so much good.
That's a habit we all want to cultivate.
Let's consider a second habit.
Be kind in your actions, tone of voice, and choice of words.
In the video, we recall Irene's reassurance to her daughter, Olivia.
She said, I know this is all new, baby.
Be patient.
Mom was kind in what she said and how she said it.
A little later though, Olivia was upset.
While we know she was hurt,
her speech and actions were not so kind, were they?
During the pandemic,
all of us have been under tremendous stress,
and likely we didn't always treat others in our family
as kindly as we would have liked.
Well, that's in the past.
But what can we all do now?
We can pray to Jehovah to help us take the lead in showing kindness.
For example, every day greeting one another kindly.
Every day, saying, please, and thank you,
sharing little gifts, making time to talk, really listening.
All of these are acts of kindness.
That's a good habit we all want to cultivate.
What's habit number three?
Be quick to apologize and forgive freely.
In the video, Olivia's new step-sister Sue apologized
after she bumped into Olivia with a box by mistake.
That apology promoted peace.
When you and I realize we've hurt someone,
even unintentionally, what should we do?
We should make amends quickly.
A mother named Marina said this.
We tried to set a good example for our children
and forgiving others and not getting offended.
When I am wrong, I apologize to my children.
I want them to learn to do the same in their dealings with others.
That's a good habit, wouldn't you agree?
Well, let's consider one more, a fourth habit.
Help your family members feel respected.
An article in the Awake magazine once made this insightful comment.
Respect is in the eye of the beholder.
What does that mean?
Even if we think we're showing respect in the family,
a good question to ask ourselves is,
do my family members feel that I respect them?
Is there more I can do to help my mate, my children,
or my parents feel loved and respected?
Brothers and sisters, when we fulfill our God-given role in the family
by developing good habits such as these,
we show respect both for Jehovah and all of our family members.
Now, let's think about Olivia and her mom.
In the next video, note how peace can be restored
by showing love and respect.
It's okay, Mom.
You didn't know.
Dad did that for her just before he died.
Anything I can do to help.
Romans 1210.
And showing honor to one another.
Take the lead.
Olivia, I made your favorite tonight.
Thank you.
I wanted to tell you I didn't handle that so well today.
You had good reason to be upset about the desk.
Mom, you didn't know.
It's just one of those things that Dad did just for me.
I know he's my sub-dad now, but I just wish he would have checked first.
It wasn't Max.
It was me.
I wanted to surprise Max with a place for him to do his work.
So he didn't make you get rid of the desk?
No.
I just thought you both didn't care.
I will never, ever stop caring about you.
What a beautiful outcome.
The well-being and unity of the family were restored.
The mom Irene applied the principal at Romans 1210.
She took the lead or the initiative to talk kindly with her daughter.
Though Olivia was upset, she too showed love and respect
by being willing to listen to her mom.
As a result, the misunderstanding was cleared up.
And Irene used the opportunity to reassure her precious daughter of her love,
saying, I will never, ever stop caring about you.
And how our hearts were touched to see their warm embrace.
When we take the lead in applying Bible principles,
we promote genuine family peace.
So may all of us be determined to keep showing our family
that we truly love and respect them in word and action.
Now, please listen as Brother Robert Lucioni,
a helper to the publishing committee,
considers the next talk of this symposium.
With the theme, follow the road map to family peace, improve communication.
Our previous talk reminded us that it's possible for a family to enjoy peace.
But it takes work.
Let's look at one more step that can help us stay on the road to peace.
And that is good communication.
A family promotes peace when all the family members communicate
in an open, calm, and honest manner.
But how does communication help with peace?
Well, a pattern of good communication keeps the family close.
It helps us to identify and address problems
before these reach a point that they take peace away.
Now, that may seem obvious.
But isn't it true that we may find that between work and school,
the meetings and ministry and recreation and just life in general
that is hard to find time to communicate as a family?
Is that a challenge in your family?
When the following dramatization notice what habits
hinder family communication?
Hey Steve.
Yeah, I'm sorry I was late to the meeting.
I should have been there to help out with my assignment.
Yeah, we got delayed.
We're late.
Let's go, kids.
Yeah, family's fine.
Everybody's adjusting really well.
Anyone see my glasses?
Anyone?
I mean, we might be a little out of sync, but I don't know.
Every family has their issues, right?
You got outside, no?
Hey, well thanks for understanding.
Okay, take care.
All right, bye-bye.
Did you notice some habits that hinder family communication?
In the case of this family, it seems like technology
is stifling their communication.
And they obviously have some things they need to communicate about.
A punctuality, dress and grooming, but it's not happening.
Now, while the scenes of them all looking at their devices
and ignoring one another may have been a bit humorous,
did it remind you of your family at times?
What a good reminder for us not to let the use of technology
rob our family of our time and attention.
So how can we develop habits that promote good communication?
Let's consider the second Bible principle of this symposium.
Let's turn together.
Please do Ephesians chapter 5 and let's read verses 15 and 16.
Ephesians 5, 15 and 16.
So keep strict watch that how you walk is not as unwise
but as wise persons, making the best use of your time
because the days are wicked.
Now let's look at two ways that this Bible principle can help us.
The first is by making time to have meaningful communication.
Did you notice there in verse 16?
It says making the best use of your time.
Now the study note for this phrase indicates the need to buy out the time
for important things from other pursuits.
So how can this apply to family communication?
Well, this could include having a plan or a routine
for when we spend time together as a family each day.
And during those times we may choose to limit our use of technology
so it does not interfere with communication.
Perhaps it's in the evening or at a specific meal time.
One brother named Aaron stated,
we have our evening meal together which allows us time to talk
and hear what's important to each member of the family.
He says my wife and I have arranged our schedules
so we take the boys to school and pick them up.
This allows us to spend more time with them.
Then he says, my wife and I regularly take walks
and freely talk about our concern.
What's the point?
Well, they're making good use of their time.
However, to do this they had to buy that time out from other pursuits.
But they have a plan, they have a routine.
So what plan or routine does your family have
for meaningful communication each day?
If you don't have one, can you start now?
Let's look at the second way that this Bible principle can help us.
And that is by determining when and how to deal with problems when they do arise.
You notice verse 15 in Ephesians chapter 5 says that we should walk as wise persons.
That means we need to choose our paths carefully.
Knowing when to go, when to stop, when to take another route.
Well, how can that help us when problems arise?
Well, a wise person generally knows when is and when is not a good time to address a problem.
For example, we all can attest that when emotions are high,
it's probably not the best time to bring up an issue.
One father states, sometimes we need to wait and let things cool.
Often the nights rest with prayer make a big difference when we address the issue the next morning.
That's a wise person.
A wise person also listens.
James chapter 1 verse 19 reminds us to be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to anger.
So thus we can go to Jehovah and prayer and ask him to help us to really listen, to stay calm, to stay humble.
One sister named Don states,
when there are problems, the first thing I do is ask Jehovah and prayer to help us resolve the problem calmly.
Then she says, then we talk with the family member privately and really try to listen to their side of the issue.
That's a wise person.
A wise person will also consider the approach and the words that he or she uses.
For example, rather than telling our family member that they have a problem, can we turn it around that it's something that we all need to work on together?
Do you reassure your family members that you really love them and you want to understand their side of the issue or the problem?
Now doing this, we're not attacking the family member, but rather showing that we're all in this together.
So we see benefits of this Bible principle in communication in our family, don't we?
You notice the two points.
Number one, making the best use of our time and number two, walking as wise persons.
Now communication will always be a work in progress, but it's worth the effort.
As it'll go a long way to bringing peace to your family.
Let's watch more of our dramatization and notice the benefits of developing habits that promote good communication.
I don't know. What do you think?
We all have to work on it. I know I need to.
Why don't we approach it that way with the kids? Just be open with them.
That sounds like a good idea.
Okay, so Irene and I have been talking about communication in our family.
We want to talk about our phones and other devices.
You're not talking about me, are you?
You can't do that. I know that we can all be more balanced, but you can't take them away.
I haven't done anything bad. I have responsibilities.
Hold on. You're always on your phone too.
That's true.
Let's just talk about it.
All right, so can you read Ephesians 5, 15, and 16 for us, please?
So keep strict watch that how you walk is not as unwise, but as wise persons, making the best use of your time, because the days are wicked.
So how do you think we're doing with our phones and other devices?
It isn't that what you're doing on your devices is wrong.
Exactly, but could it be taking time away from more important things, like talking to each other?
And in that way affecting even how we're talking to each other?
Yeah, I think it'd be smart to have some boundaries then.
Yeah, okay. Okay.
Okay? Let's talk about how we can do that.
Hey.
How do you love you?
Evidently, I haven't figured out how to talk to her about her close yet.
I need your help.
I got this one.
I know, but it's all about good spiritual judgment.
Do you think that these trends reflect Jehovah's view of respectable dress?
I know that you'll do the right thing.
While we're all here, I know we all have different views on punctuality.
But I really need your help so I can take care of some of my responsibilities.
You think we can meet in the middle?
Yeah.
All right.
Great.
Now, this symposium has been discussing four Bible principles that can guide families to peace.
Now, did we see how this scripture helped our family in the video?
Well, we saw that they knew down deep that they were not making the best use of their time.
So they may changes.
They saw that they needed to set boundaries so they could improve their communication.
And we also saw how the family, the parents, acted as wise persons.
How?
Well, by determining when and how to address the problems that needed to be addressed,
such as the use of technology, dress and grooming and punctuality.
Well, can this Bible principle help your family, help my family to improve communication?
Would this be a good scripture to include in your next family worship?
Now, it takes time to learn how to communicate well as a family.
But it is worth the effort.
Why?
Well, if we strive to communicate well each day, then communication will come more readily when there are problems.
So be determined to look for ways to improve communication in your family.
And by taking this initiative and sticking with it, you will be following the roadmap to family peace.
Please listen out to Brother David Splane, a member of the governing body,
as he considers the next talk of this symposium, follow the roadmap to family peace, work as a team.
Jehovah intended married couples to work together.
That's why Jesus used the expression we find at Matthew 19 and verse 6.
Let's read this from the Bible.
Matthew 19, I'll give you a moment, Matthew chapter 19, and we're going to read verse 6.
Now, first of all, Jesus quotes from Genesis 2.24.
He says, speaking of varied couples, he says, so that they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Now, do you remember Jehovah made that comment in the Garden of Eden?
But now, Jesus adds something that isn't in Genesis.
He says, therefore, what God has yoked together, let no man put apart.
When we think of a yoke, we may think of a team of horses plowing a field or pulling a heavy wagon.
Now, if they pull together, they can be a powerful force.
The same is true when family members work together.
Mom, dad, you have excellent reasons to work together.
When you work together, you contribute to the peace of the family.
And think of the effect it has on the children.
By working together, you are teaching that fine young son of yours how to be a caring husband and father.
And your beautiful daughter? How to be a supportive wife and mother?
But what happens when teammates begin pulling in opposite directions or when one puts on the brakes?
That's watch a video. Now, here's the setup.
For a long time, a sister raised her two children as a single parent and she did a great job of it.
Then, she married a very kind brother. The family has a new head.
Let's see how well the sister is adapting to her new role.
The last few weeks of family worship have been nice. Right?
Yeah.
All these things we ask in praying, Jesus' name, amen.
Okay, this week.
We are in chapter 5.
Yeah, that's right. And last week gave bread, so this week...
It's suster.
That's right. It's suster.
Okay, the point here is that when it comes...
Honey, maybe an illustration would be better.
Um...
Okay.
It's like a bird.
Well, hopefully I was able to clear that up for you a little bit of Olivia.
Well, actually, Max, that's not true.
We had an updated understanding in the recent watchtower.
Thanks.
I think they went really well.
Right?
Um...
Actually.
Hey.
Maybe we can talk about it later.
Okay.
The sister isn't a bad person.
But we can ask, what's she teaching her daughter about the wife's role in the family?
And what's your son learning about taking the lead as the man of the house?
He hasn't had a man in his life for a long time.
No, there is one.
It's safe to say that the kids will stand a better chance of having a successful marriage themselves
when they see their parents pulling together.
A little later, we'll see how the husband handles the situation.
And we, brothers, are going to want to pay attention.
This is a classic.
Family life is more pleasant when dad, mom, and the kids work together as a team.
The family head is the captain.
He needs to make sure that everyone knows what goal is the family's working toward,
and how each one can contribute toward achieving those goals.
When as your family is turned to help clean the kingdom hall,
or a convention venue, for example, don't leave the kids at home.
They're part of the team.
Don't go there with half the team.
Let them experience the joy that comes from serving others.
Let them work along with you.
If you're assigned to clean the restrooms, don't complain about it.
A very fine example.
Your children will learn that on this work to be done, we just do it.
We aren't picky about what we will and will not do.
And we don't feel that some jobs are beneath us.
Now this is in line with Paul's counsel, found at Philippians chapter 2, verses 3 and 4.
Let's look that up.
Let's go to exercise.
Philippians chapter 2, verses 3 and 4.
Now we're thinking about the family as a team here.
It says, do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism,
but with humility, consider others superior to you,
as you will look out not only for your own interests,
but also for the interests of others.
When there's work to be done, someone has to do it.
Do I think that I'm so special that someone else has to look after it?
Some families volunteer to help with kingdom hall maintenance.
When the kids are old enough, they can work on other projects like working on an assembly hall.
They have a ball.
The friendships that you and your young people will forge can last a lifetime.
And here's a bonus.
When the young people go to a circuit assembly or a regional convention,
they'll have good friends to associate with, both young and old.
People they've been working with.
What about working around the house?
Some parents feel that the children shouldn't have to help out at all
because they have their schoolwork to do.
But their schoolwork is something they do for themselves.
How are they contributing to the welfare of the family?
How are they learning to serve others unselfishly?
It's good for a child to feel that he has an important role in the household
and that people are counting on him.
Think what that does for his self-respect.
A father named Stephen said,
when nothing is expected of them, children learn that they're here to be served
and they grow up with a distorted view of what life will require of them.
We might ask, will a young person with that attitude even be able to keep a job?
When some in the world lose their job, they remain unemployed for a long time.
They can't pay the bills.
Yet there are job opportunities all around them.
But they consider those jobs beneath them.
And what's one of the most annoying traits an employee can have?
Ask any boss.
When the worker is asked to do something, he replies,
that's not my job.
Teach your child that anything that needs to be done is his job
if he's old enough and capable of doing it.
How early should parents start to assign chores to their children?
Some experts have found that children who are three years old
or even younger can be taught to help out.
They can learn to pick up their toys, clean up spills, sort laundry.
Older children can vacuum, wash the car, prepare a meal.
I'm happy to say that many young brothers here at Bethel are excellent cooks,
which is often the result of fine parental training.
Do you remember the video where Caleb is taught to clean his room
and put away his toys?
That video was a game changer for many children.
They want to be just like Caleb.
And now, when you enter their room, you can find the bed.
When problems arise, attack the problem, not each other.
It's not, how can I win? But how can we win?
You'll see an excellent example of that in the follow-up video.
Let's watch.
Hey. Want some tea?
Sure.
Hey, babe. You and me.
We're a team, right?
Yeah, of course.
When I read this, I thought about us.
So that they are no longer two, but one flesh.
I know before you had to shoulder everything yourself for so long.
And you did great.
You've been raising two beautiful spiritual kids on your own.
But now you have me.
Yeah, I do.
So, do you think sometimes we're not a team?
Well, it's just sometimes our family worship.
I get excited and I jump in.
And I know I'm just so used to doing it after all these years.
I know you're not trying to take over.
And listen, I love the way you teach.
I see how you can reach the kids in ways that I can't.
Just let me guide it.
And I'll make sure you can do that.
Thanks, honey.
Thanks for your patience.
No, thank you for your patience.
I'm a work in progress, but we make a great team.
Why don't we look at what we're going to cover before our next family worship?
That sounds great.
Wasn't that a fine example of how to attack a problem?
Not your mate.
No arguments.
No raised voices.
No accusations.
The husband had empathy for his wife.
He didn't question her motives.
He realized that as a single parent, she'd been taking the lead for a long time.
And notice how she responded to her husband's kind counsel.
No doubt, it's going to be easy for the kids to respect their stepfather.
And they're going to learn how a husband and wife should treat each other
and how they should pull together.
Sometimes soon, you might want to consider these questions.
In what aspects of our marriage do we work well as a team?
And then, how can we improve?
It pleases Jehovah when family members work together as a team.
That promotes peace in the family.
And our God is a God of peace.
Now, Brother John Echron will consider the final talk of this symposium.
Follow the road map to family peace.
Worship Jehovah together.
Jehovah wants your family to be happy and peaceful.
But Jehovah does more than simply say, I hope you have a peaceful family life.
He explains exactly how we can get our family there.
I want you to imagine Jehovah laying out a map in front of you
and saying, see these landmarks?
Look for them on the road to peace.
And if you see them, you're going in the right direction.
So far in this symposium, we've passed the landmarks of show love and respect,
improving communication and working together as a team.
The last landmark we'll consider in this symposium is worshipping together as a family.
Worshiping together as a family promotes peace and brings his blessing.
Even if not all in your family or worshippers of Jehovah,
you can promote peace by maintaining a very good spiritual routine.
In the following dramatization, notice some common obstacles to worshipping Jehovah as a family.
Hi.
Hi babe.
So what's for family worship this week?
I think I got some good ideas.
Yeah?
Thank you for reading that.
Let's just go ahead and ask the question.
So paragraph 13 of 14, how can we be generous?
Anybody?
Now the footnote that we just read really helps us to appreciate the definition of that quality.
Without the definition, we're left to wonder exactly what it is and how it connects
to the other things that we've discussed this evening.
Again, can you go ahead and read the next one for us?
The Bible contains many examples of submissive individuals.
So are there examples?
Sue?
That's right.
When we talk about examples, where do we start?
There's examples in the past.
There's even examples presently, and we could even be examples.
That's the power of them.
Let's keep going.
That was a lot of reading.
I know, right?
I want to enjoy family worship, but I feel like the things that we are covering
are just really not what I need right now.
Yeah.
You know, I just don't know if this is what they need right now.
We'll keep working on it.
I think we'd all agree that family worship was difficult to watch.
It was uncomfortable for everyone.
Clearly, Max and Irene had some obstacles.
They needed to overcome to really worship Jehovah as a family.
To start and keep a good habit going requires determination and resolve.
So that's where you need to start for your family.
You need to resolve that you're going to worship Jehovah as a family.
Notice the resolve in Joshua's words at Joshua chapter 24 and verse 15.
As Joshua chapter 24 and verse 15.
Now, if it seems bad to you to serve Jehovah, choose for yourselves today whom you will serve.
Whether the gods that your forefather served on the other side of the river,
or the gods of the Amorites and whose land you're dwelling,
but as for me and my household, we will serve Jehovah.
Yes, worship of Jehovah as a family needs to be at the very center of your family life.
Now, weekly family worship is not all that's involved in worshiping together as a family.
Let's consider five ways we can worship together Jehovah as a family.
One, prayer.
Parents do not underestimate the impact that your prayers have on your children.
When a child hears their parents pour out their hearts to Jehovah,
that tells them that Jehovah is very real to their parents.
I can recall growing up listening to my father's prayers.
Now, when I was young, I thought his prayers were very long,
but as I grew older and really listened carefully to what he was saying,
I could see how much of a close relationship he had with Jehovah.
Two, discuss the daily text.
It's an excellent habit and a very spiritual way to start the day.
Three attending meetings.
Now, not just make sure our family is there at the meetings,
but they're involved, engaged, and work hard to prepare so all family members
can have a meaningful comment at the meetings.
Four, share in the ministry regularly as a family.
Now, sharing in the ministry together as a family draws us closer to our family members.
When we hear them speak about the truth, we listen to their phone calls,
or we read their letters, we can feel their faith.
I loved going in the ministry with my mother,
and listened to her skillfully use the Bible to answer questions.
And five, have a consistent, enjoyable, and meaningful family worship program.
Let's consider what that means.
First of all, consistent.
In the video, Max was trying to have the family worship consistently each week.
Is your family worship consistent each week?
Is your family worship enjoyable?
In the video, the kids were bored.
They were looking at their phones, checking the time,
and week after week of kind of a question and answer style,
led to the young people giving sort of one word answers.
It did not look enjoyable.
Now, would your family describe family worship as enjoyable?
How about meaningful?
What Max was using for material was material that he thought was meaningful.
But did it look like it was meaningful to the family?
Does your family worship use material that is meaningful to your family?
Now, after reviewing these five points,
we don't want you to be discouraged if it's a struggle to maintain a good routine.
Life in this system has many challenges, trials, and unexpected events.
So, stays positive.
And when your good routine breaks down from time to time,
consider what adjustments you can make to be successful
and get your spiritual routine back on track.
Regularly ask Jehovah for his help and don't give up.
Now, as you watch the following dramatization,
notice how Max and Irene and the family work together
to make family worship successful.
March 15th, 2014, Watch Tower.
Family worship, can you make it more enjoyable?
The worship of Jehovah should not be boring.
Address the needs of each family member.
Babe, what do our kids need?
What's actually going on in their lives?
Family worship needs to include that.
Maybe we need to pay more attention to what's going on with them.
Talk to them, listen to them.
I'm going to send you a link to a great watch to our article.
I can't wait to read it.
Max and I changed our approach.
We found out what mattered to our kids.
Like friends.
Adjusting to a blended family.
Dating.
So we turned things around and used family worship
to focus on what our kids really needed
and to prepare ourselves for possible future trials.
Good night.
Family worship was cool.
It was.
I'm glad you liked it.
Thank you.
Good night, Cha.
Good night.
Hey, guess what?
What?
I applied to Bethel.
You did?
Yep.
That's really exciting.
I'm proud of you.
Thanks.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
Hey, selfie time, everybody.
Yeah.
All right, on three.
We're going to say Bethel, OK?
All right.
One, two, three.
Bethel.
We've come a long way.
And through it all, Jehovah has taught us to love.
And he's given our family peace.
We can see that Max and Irene analyzed what was wrong
with family worship and decided to change their approach.
Let's examine how they did that and what it means for us.
What did they do to make their family worship more meaningful?
Well, Max and Irene had to ask themselves,
what's going on in their kids' lives?
What topics could they discuss at family worship
that would truly be useful to their kids?
Did you smile when you saw Max almost drop the glass?
What his daughter talked about dating?
But what a difference.
Their efforts to listen and really understand what was happening
with the kids made in the family worship.
How did Max and Irene make family worship more enjoyable?
Did you see how the family was reacting at family worship now?
What a difference.
The kids were smiling.
They looked engaged in the discussion
and touched by what they were discussing.
So do what you can to make sure that your family feels relaxed and happy
and that your family worship reflects the kind of happy and joyful God
that Jehovah is.
Remember, your family will often remember more about how they felt
during family worship than maybe the exact details of what they learned.
Keep worshiping Jehovah's a family.
Keep your family worship consistent, enjoyable and meaningful
and work together to overcome obstacles.
Just like Max and Irene and the kids all worked together to solve problems
and create a very peaceful family life.
It was really beautiful to see how far they had come by applying Bible principles.
In review, this symposium has taught us that Bible principles
are used as a roadmap to family peace.
Work hard to show love and respect, to improve communication,
to work together as a team and to worship Jehovah together.
And please be patient with one another as you form habits that lead to peace.
With Jehovah's help, you and your family will enjoy peace
that only he can provide.
Thank you, brothers.
We benefited from thinking about how we can apply the Bible principles
you shared and from the practical lessons in the dramatizations.
All of us long to see true peace on earth.
How will that be accomplished?
And how can we prove that we honor and support Jehovah's appointed King Christ Jesus?
Let's listen as Brother Mark Numer, a helper to the teaching committee,
wise these answers and more in the talk,
loyally support the Prince of Peace.
Imagine the scene.
It's nighttime.
You're in the Garden of Gethsemane with your close friends and beloved teacher.
Suddenly, you hear a crowd coming.
They're being led by a man you know, Judas Iscariot.
He approaches Jesus and kisses him on the cheek.
And steps aside as men move into arrest Jesus.
Here emotions churn inside you.
Your Master and Lord is being arrested.
The Son of God.
How can this be happening?
What do you do before you can even decide what to do?
Peter draws his sword and chops off the ear of the slave of the high priest.
Then Jesus says to Peter,
return your sword to its place.
For those who take up the sword will perish by the sword.
And then you watch the unbelievable as Jesus heals the man's ear.
Peter must have thought he was a great and noble thing to fight in behalf of the Son of God.
But Jesus didn't think so.
With six words, return your sword to its place.
Jesus taught his disciples an important lesson.
This was not their fight, nor was it the time to fight.
So in this talk, we're going to focus our attention on an insidious way that any of us,
like Peter, can become inadvertently involved in this world's conflicts without even realizing it.
And we will talk about how we can avoid making that serious mistake.
But first, let's discuss why Jesus did not ask his father to send twelve legions of angels
to help him when being arrested.
It has to do with Jesus' name.
So please open your Bible to Isaiah chapter 9 and let's read verse 6.
Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6.
Now we know Jesus has many titles,
but in this verse we're going to focus on on just one, verse 6.
For a child has been born to us.
A son has been given to us.
And the rulership will rest on his shoulder.
His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace.
Why is Jesus called Prince of Peace?
Well, consider what Jehovah's Angels declared to the shepherds in the field at Jesus' birth at Luke chapter 2 and verse 14.
They said, Glory in the heights above to God and upon earth peace among men of good will.
How appropriate for the angels to announce at the birth of the destined Prince of Peace
that there would be divine peace for those who have God's good will.
But when will this become a reality?
It didn't happen when Jesus was on earth and we certainly don't see peace today instead of peace, what do we see?
We see the nations that are locked in hostilities and aggression and a competition for world dominance.
We see global violence and bloodshed, but please don't lose heart.
Because we don't see peace now does not mean it's not coming.
Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6.
It's not just wishful thinking.
It's a promise from Almighty God and Jehovah cannot lie.
All his prophecies come true.
In fact, let's read the last portion of verse 7 in Isaiah chapter 9.
The last portion of verse 7.
It says, the zeal of Jehovah of armies will do this.
What does that mean?
It means that Jehovah does nothing in a half-hearted way.
He's zealous to bring peace and he will.
We can be sure that whatever Jehovah promises, he will fully accomplish.
So how will peace come to the earth?
Did the Prince of Peace give us a clue?
Yes, he did.
In fact, the key to everlasting peace is on the lips of millions of people throughout the world.
They know it by heart.
But let's read it at Matthew chapter 6 and verse 9 and 10.
Matthew chapter 6 and verse 9.
What a beautiful thought for us.
This is where everlasting peace is going to come through it.
It depends on the fulfillment of these verses.
Verse 9.
You must pray then this way.
Our Father in the heavens led your name.
The name Jehovah be sanctified.
The emphasis that we place on the name of God
is not merely a matter of religious knowledge.
Everyone must know God's name and treat it as something wholly and respected.
It has to be something sacred.
It must be cleared of all the reproach that has been heaped upon it.
In fact, the well-being of the entire universe and its inhabitants
depends upon the sanctification of Jehovah's name.
Now let's look at verse 10.
Let your kingdom come.
Let your will take place as in heaven also on earth.
God's kingdom.
Two words, but so important.
God's kingdom is the most powerful government humanity will ever see.
There is no nation or empire that can withstand the might of God's kingdom.
And any nation who thinks they can block the coming of God's kingdom
is like an ant who plants itself firmly on the railroad track.
And with his hand raised,
defiantly shouts to the oncoming locomotive,
stop, you can't run over me.
Well, God's heavenly government has the power to destroy all present-day violent regimes.
They're like ants to Jehovah.
And he will eliminate their ability to wage war, format, conflict, and to shed blood.
So yes, Matthew 6, 9, and 10.
It's that valuable and important for lasting peace.
God's kingdom is the only road to lasting peace.
And in his role as king,
Revelation chapter 19 and verse 15 describes Jesus
as striking the nations with an iron rod
soon Jehovah will give the command to his son.
And he will destroy all the things that disrupt peace.
God will be the terror that we have grown accustomed to living with,
day in and day out.
So what will happen next?
This is what will happen.
Psalm 37, 10 and 11.
Let's open our Bibles here to Psalm 37, 10 and 11,
and just allow this prophecy to absorb and to thrill our minds and our hearts
and give us a hope for the future.
Verse 10, Psalm 37.
Just a little while longer,
and the wicked will be no more, a little while longer.
You will look at where they were and they will not be there.
Just a little while longer,
just like children saying to their parents going on a trip,
are we there yet?
And the parents say just a little while longer.
And that brings comfort to them.
And it's the same with us.
So imagine that.
This means you go into the streets.
You're looking for a wicked person.
You would not be able to find even one the wicked will be no more.
But the meek will possess the earth.
That's what we're speaking about in verse 11.
Let's read that.
But the meek will possess the earth.
And they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.
We love reading that.
Men will be at peace.
They will be at peace with themselves, with their neighbors, with their God.
How does that sound to you?
Meditate on that.
Can you see yourself there in a peaceful new world?
Where the only news to tune into is regarding who's getting resurrected today.
Which new person will you be assigned to teach about Jehovah?
Can you imagine the joy of studying with a person,
not just from a different culture, but from a different time period?
Seeing things through their eyes.
As they come to love, Jehovah, as you do.
Well, soon, the Prince of Peace will turn this world into one of sheer delight.
No more borders.
No more threats.
No more worries.
Just an abundance of peace with your brothers and sisters.
Do you want to be there?
Me too.
So how can we show our loyal support for the Prince of Peace?
Please watch the following video and notice the different ways we can do this right now.
I am no part of the world.
But is the world a part of me?
I'm pressured every day to get involved in political issues that affect me socially.
Environmentally and economically.
That pressure could rob me of my peace of mind.
And influence how I think.
I could take sides in my heart even if I'm not aware of it.
But I know that Jehovah will care for all of mankind's concerns.
By means of His kingdom, ruled by His Son, Jesus Christ.
I show my support for Him in my prayers.
In how I think and feel.
And by teaching others what the kingdom will do for mankind.
I know there are millions of brothers and sisters all over the world.
Who lawyerly support the Prince of Peace just like me.
Because I.
I.
I am no part of the world.
What takes away the peace in the country where you live?
In your community, in your town, in your society.
Most likely it's the hot button social issues.
Did you notice how our two brothers and sisters showed their loyal support for the Prince of Peace?
What issues affected them?
Unfair tax heights, blatant injustice, a disregard of the environment.
All things in themselves seem like noble causes,
worthy to get involved.
How can they get away with this?
It's not right.
We should do something.
Does that sound familiar?
We may not have a literal sword in our hand.
But we all have our Peter-like moments.
And if we're not careful issues that are close to our heart can charge our emotions
and we could lose our spiritual balance.
So what can help us when we see things that are wrong?
Remember what the Prince of Peace said to Peter, that highly charged moment.
Return your sword to its place.
In other words, this is not your fight.
So what do we do?
We do something far better than fight.
We preach.
Each time that we share the Kingdom news,
we proclaim our support for Jesus' rule.
But here's the thing.
If we truly believe in the good news of the Kingdom,
we will not do anything that hinders our ability to tell it.
Once again, it's so important.
If we truly believe in the good news of the Kingdom,
we will not do anything that hinders our ability to tell it.
Why?
Let's find out.
Let's open up to Peter's words himself.
Peter, first Peter, chapter 2, and verse 12.
First Peter, chapter 2, and verse 12.
Peter helps us here with why we need to maintain our conduct properly.
First Peter 2, 12.
Maintain your conduct fine among the nations,
so that when they accuse you of being wrongdoers,
they may be eyewitnesses of your fine works.
And as a result, glorify God in the day of His inspection.
So Peter had to learn this.
But do we see the connection?
Our actions and words are directly linked to Jehovah.
When people see us, they see it people that worships Jehovah.
And when people hear us, they hear of people that worship Jehovah.
Imagine how our freeness of speech to speak about God's Kingdom would be hindered,
if we were to voice a position for a political issue.
And it can happen so easily.
It can happen at work or at school with relatives and so forth.
Satan sets the trap masterfully.
He's just waiting.
If he can only make us chop off the ear of anything in this world that causes hurt
and indignation in our heart.
If he can hook our heart strings by getting us emotionally charged,
he can then step back and reel us in.
The new world, our hope for true peace,
it all starts to fade into the background.
Don't give him that chance.
Be determined to do what Titus chapter 3 and verse 1 and 2 tell us.
Let's read that.
Titus chapter 3 and verse 1 and 2.
Here's the scriptural admonition.
Continue reminding them to be in subjection and to be obedient to governments and authorities,
to be ready for every good work,
to speak injuriously of no one,
not to be quarrelsome,
but to be reasonable displaying all mildness toward all men.
Be in subjection and be obedient to governments and authorities.
Well, now let's break that down in practical terms.
What does it mean?
It means to obey the laws of the land and pay taxes,
not to speak negatively about the superior authorities,
to be careful not to take sides on political issues,
not even in our hearts.
Do you remember that expression from the video?
I'm not a part of the world,
but is the world a part of me.
Of course, when we find ourselves between Caesar's law and God's law,
we know what to do.
We apply Acts chapter 5 and verse 29 and obey God as rule rather than men.
We know that.
But like Jesus who healed the ear of the armed guard Malcus,
we're determined to react with mildness when provoked
by an injustice or cruelty in this world.
In conclusion,
we have the indescribable privilege to honor the Prince of Peace
and how reassuring it is to know that Jesus understands our feelings.
He understands our emotions when we see things that we know are wrong.
He knows these things hurt our heart.
We just want to make things right.
But remember the critical lesson
he taught his apostles in the Garden of Gethsemane.
This is not your fight.
Rather, Jehovah the King of Eternity
and Jesus the Prince of Peace are telling us,
this is our fight.
Leave it in our hands.
Soon the prophecy at Isaiah chapter 9 verse 6 and 7
will be fulfilled completely.
In the meantime,
keep preaching about the kingdom.
Avoid saying or doing anything that suggests taking sides
on a political issue.
Don't allow yourself to chop off the ear of the injustices
and the causes of conflict of this old world.
Peter tried that, but it didn't work.
He learned a big lesson that day in the Garden
and he never forgot it.
May we never forget it either.
Now is the time to show your active and loyal support
for the Prince of Peace
as we echo Peter's words
at 2 Peter 3.14
and do our utmost to be found
finally by Jehovah and the Prince of Peace,
spotless and unblemished and in peace.
Thank you, Brother Numer.
For strengthening our determination
to give our undivided support
to God's appointed King Christ Jesus.
This brings us to the final talk of today's session.
Jesus promised to give his followers peace.
Why is the peace that Jesus gives far superior
to any peace at this world promises?
And how can we safeguard the gift of peace
that Jesus has given us?
Please follow along
as Brother Anthony Morris,
a member of the governing body,
delivers the talk,
do not be misled by imitation peace.
Jesus taught us that Satan
is the father of the lie.
We recall that he deceived Eve a perfect woman.
He lied about our precious Jehovah.
Now, you're familiar with many of you
with the Revelation chapter 12,
invite you to find that Revelation chapter 12.
And in this chapter,
verses 7 and 8,
addressed the fact that the war broke out in heaven.
But notice,
after they're kicked out of heaven,
in verse 9,
we read,
so down the great dragon was hurled,
the original serpent,
the one called devil and Satan,
who was misleading
the entire inhabited earth.
He was hurled down to the earth,
and his angels were hurled down with him.
Now, I read it that way specifically,
but see what it doesn't say is
in the middle part of verse 9,
Satan who's trying
to mislead the entire inhabited earth.
No.
He is misleading the entire inhabited earth.
That's crucial to understand,
when we think about the theme of this talk,
not to be misled by imitation peace,
because as the rule of the world,
that's what he's out to do,
is mislead.
In fact,
an interesting point here,
in 2 Corinthians chapter 11,
to appreciate
how he goes about misleading,
or at least it's addressed here
to serve as a good warning for us,
and an interesting point
with the revision of the New World Translation,
for those of you in the truth before 2013,
when it was revised,
you'll remember this,
we'd see verse 14,
2 Corinthians chapter 11,
and no wonder for Satan himself
keeps disguising himself
as an angel of light.
Now, the New World Translation used to say
before the revision
transforms himself
into an angel of light.
Well,
the very English word metamorphosis,
like for a caterpillar,
transforming into a beautiful butterfly,
that's where it comes from the Greek language,
and that word was not in verse 14.
No, because Satan can't transform himself
into an angel of light,
so it's an improved translation,
but he does disguise.
He's a masquerader,
and he does that
with the subject of peace.
His world offers a sort of peace,
but it's imitation peace.
Now, Jesus has distinguished,
though, with the peace that he gives,
and if you'll follow long here in John,
in chapter 14,
he himself explains it to us,
we treasure the gospel accounts.
Verse 27,
I leave you peace.
I give you my peace.
I do not give it to you the way the world gives it.
Do not let your hearts be troubled,
nor let them shrink out of fear.
So Jesus gives us his peace.
See, and the peace that Jesus gives us,
it's this inner calm,
you know, the truth,
and Jesus gives us the peace.
We have this confidence that he loves us,
Jehovah loves us,
so that we enjoy a good,
peaceful relationship with them
and a good conscience.
And we look forward to the kingdom
removing all war and death.
Now, point to make here,
Satan wants us to trade
the peace that Jesus gives
for his imitation peace
that he has advertised in the world.
Now, in this talk,
we will consider three forms of imitation peace,
and why the peace that Jesus gives
is superior.
The first one has to do with material things,
how they'll not bring true peace,
and to help us with that,
turn to Matthew chapter four,
and we'll be referring to this chapter
throughout this particular talk about,
not being misled by imitation peace,
and this one connected with material things,
how they don't bring true peace
in the example Jesus sets for us here.
So, Matthew chapter four,
then Jesus was led by the Spirit
up into the wilderness
to be tempted by the devil.
After he had fasted for forty days and forty nights,
he felt hungry.
An attempter approached and said to him,
if you are a son of God,
tell these stones become loaves of bread.
But he answered,
it is written,
man must live not on bread alone,
but on every word that comes
from Jehovah's mouth.
That a beautiful rebuttal.
See, Jesus refused to trade his peace
for material things,
and in this case bread,
even though he was hungry.
So, serving Jehovah was more important to him
than material things, say.
And in the world,
they have this thinking about,
well, you need a certain amount
of money to retire,
and they are constantly focused on material things.
Not Jesus, see.
Superior peace from Jehovah God.
So, it is only temporary anyway
that the material benefits that people seek
and pursue throughout their lives.
Now, we can enjoy true contentment
because Jehovah God is going to care for us.
We know that many have personal experiences to prove that.
Now, in the following video,
see what a brother learned
about the so-called peace the world promises.
As a family,
we were doing very well spiritually.
We did family worship, preaching,
and going to the meetings together.
After some time,
we began to encounter financial problems.
At times,
we did not even have money to buy food for each day.
Many people in our area were going to South Africa
to provide basic needs for their families.
So, I decided to go as well,
leaving behind my wife
to take care of our seven children.
This affected me spiritually
because I did not know the language,
I was unable to preach,
and I did not benefit from the meetings.
Being so far from my family
caused me to neglect my responsibility as a family head.
As a result,
my family grew weak spiritually,
and we all missed each other very much.
I realized that I had made a wrong decision going abroad.
My conscience started to trouble me greatly.
Then I remembered the example of Baruch,
founded Jeremiah chapter 45, verse 5.
Baruch may have wanted to pursue material riches as I had.
When he was helped, he returned.
I decided then to put Jehovah in first place,
instead of searching for material things.
So I started to make changes to go home,
and help my family spiritually.
When I left South Africa and reached the border of Malawi,
after leaving my family for about six months,
I felt great happiness in my heart,
and I am still happy till now.
Studying the Bible has helped me.
We still encounter financial problems,
but I remember that in Satan's world,
there is no way we can go and have no problems.
Now I serve as an elder.
My family is progressing spiritually,
and this makes me very happy,
because my relationship with Jehovah is strong.
Yes, he learned a hard lesson.
He goes to South Africa,
meetings are interrupted, no field service,
and then he remembers Baruch,
secretary for Jeremiah,
and he returns to be with his family,
putting the kingdom first,
and we appreciate him being truthful
and sharing that experience.
That's imitation peace going after material things.
Now, this next is quite interesting,
so pay close attention,
because there may be some listening that need this counsel.
Satan's world says that we can ignore Bible standards,
and we might need to ignore some of them to gain peace of mind.
Here's two examples that we're going to analyze in this talk.
A person may reason that marrying an unbeliever
or obtaining an unscriptural divorce
will make life easier,
and they start reasoning.
I just want to get married,
he's an unbeliever, but he's a nice person.
Things like that go on with the treacherous heart.
Again, we go to the example of our Lord and Master Jesus.
We're going to read verses five through seven of Matthew four.
Then the devil took him along into the holy city,
and he stationed him on the battlement of the temple,
and said to him,
if you are a son of God,
throw yourself down,
for it is written,
he will give his angels a command concerning you,
and they will carry you on their hands
so that you may not strike your foot against a stone.
Jesus said to him,
again, it is written,
you must not put your whole of your God to the test.
See, Jesus made that very clear.
He was going to be obedient to his father,
and wasn't going to worry about
being testy with such an experience
as the devil proposed there.
So,
obedience.
See, Jesus twice,
in the moment we'll read another one,
it is written.
He sticks with the scriptures,
Jehovah's thinking,
and he refused to disobey Jehovah.
Now, here's the question.
Why is the piece that Jesus gives superior to the pursuit
of unscriptural solutions to our problems?
Let that sink in.
Why is the piece that Jesus gives superior
to the pursuit of unscriptural solutions to our problems?
For example,
marrying an unbeliever.
That will likely bring,
and as has happened time after time,
bring that person greater pain
than the longing they felt when they were single.
I've personally seen that
all too many times
in various congregations
at the privilege to serve in.
You see, the other one is
unscriptural divorce.
It often leads to immoral conduct.
It certainly leads to a troubled conscience,
emotional damage,
and of course a loss of privileges.
Now, this is very important to keep in mind,
while it's true
to imperfect individuals married to each other,
well, there's going to be difficulties.
There's going to be challenges,
but see, stop and think about this.
When you're having difficulties,
don't forget that marriage
is a sacred arrangement.
The world totally has forgotten that.
So Jehovah will strengthen
both to make a success.
Gotta keep that in mind.
Jehovah will strengthen and help
so that you can succeed,
because this is his sacred arrangement,
and the devil has been attacking
the family arrangement
all through the last days of the system,
and he's intensifying it
as he gets closer to
being thrown into the abyss.
Now, in the following video,
notice the results of pursuing
imitation peace.
newly married life came with a lot of
unexpected challenges.
You dream about the way your marriage will go,
but then the reality is quite different.
All we ever did was argue,
or we wouldn't speak to one another.
We never ever went to the elders.
We just didn't want to bother them.
We just felt, you know, we needed to
figure it out ourselves.
We decided if the household
would separate.
The separation wasn't a good thing,
because in some respects,
it made things worse.
It did have an impact on the boys.
They started acting out.
They got into some trouble
with the police one time.
And there was a loneliness
because you've gotten married,
and now you don't have that,
and you're by yourself.
And the same old routine went on
looking and cleaning and doing laundry and working.
I felt sick to my stomach.
I had a hard time getting up
every morning and facing the world.
At that point, I felt that I needed
to have the elders help out a little bit.
I did pray for Jehovah's help to direct me,
and kept wondering why Jehovah
wasn't really answering my prayers,
but I kind of realized now
that it was because we were separated.
The expectations of the separation
were not at all what I was thinking.
I reflected on the marriage vows.
One of the things I thought about
was a sister in our congregation.
She was married to an unbeliever,
and then she learned the truth.
And he was so violent.
He would beat her.
He would burn her books.
He would burn her clothes.
He did not allow her children to attend the meetings.
And I thought about the problems that Darryl and I had,
and I thought, well, Darryl is a kind person.
He's never done that.
And I thought, you know,
this is something that we need to really work on.
We need to really put forth the effort
to start applying Bible principles
to put Jehovah first in our life,
so that we can bring our marriage back into union with Jehovah.
I realized that it wasn't what I wanted.
It was what Jehovah wanted.
There was just no other choice.
Jehovah wasn't going to bless us
unless we got back together.
When we got back together,
our marriage was still a work in progress.
You can't have a perfect marriage in this world,
but you can sure make it better
when you put Jehovah first.
We enjoyed feelings towards each other.
I felt closer to Debbie.
Debbie and I have been married now 48 years.
Separation does not make anything better at all.
If you even have an inkling of love for one another,
you want to work on that
and you want to make it bloom
so that Jehovah can bless it.
The blessings have been endless.
Our children are all doing fantastic in the truth.
Jehovah said taste and see that it is good,
so we've got to do that.
We really appreciated this couple sharing.
The experience with the brotherhood.
He learned, you know,
they're always arguing,
and it's all they did was argue, argue, argue.
It affected their children.
They decided to separate.
Finally, I have peace.
I don't have to be around her.
Or I don't have to be around him.
Well, then he realized his relationship
with Jehovah was being in her fear death here.
And he went to the elders.
His prayers were affected, things he noticed.
He was honest about that.
And our precious sister was so nice to honestly explain.
She said, what she learned was,
this is not about me.
It's about Jehovah.
Well, you finally come to that realization
that Jehovah will strengthen you
to enjoy peace with your marriage partner.
Now, the next one,
I never tire of speaking about this particular couple of verses
or reading about it or hearing another brother give
to talk about it.
See, here's what's coming soon.
That's here with me,
chapter 5 and many of you are going,
oh, yeah, I know what he's going to read about.
And this is one of the prophecies
that is yet to be fulfilled.
So it's just invigorating to know that soon,
here's what's going to happen.
First, that's the Loneins, chapter 5, verse 2 and 3.
For you yourselves know very well
that Jehovah's Day is coming exactly as a thief in the night.
Whenever it is that they are saying peace and security,
then sudden destruction is to be instantly on them,
just like birth pains on a pregnant woman,
and they will by no means escape.
Yes, the Jehovah's Day.
This has to do with the day,
the outbreak of the Great Tribulation,
babble on the Great is destroyed,
and then Armageddon finishes it off in this context.
That's Jehovah's Day.
And what happens before that is this proclamation,
peace and security.
Well, religious leaders being involved
while they're part of Satan's system,
that's very possible.
We'll have to wait and see.
Will it be one announcement or a series of announcements
that we don't know?
But this is coming.
And those that are staying close to Jehovah
and enjoying the peace from him and his son Jesus
will not be deceived by this imitation proclamation of peace,
imitation peace.
And again, back in Matthew chapter four,
we're going to see how Jesus handled this type of test
from the devil.
And we learn from it here in verses eight through 11,
Matthew chapter four.
Again, the devil took him and verse eight,
took him along to an unusually high mountain,
and showed him all of the kingdoms of the world,
and their glory.
And he said to him,
all these things I will give you
if you fall down and do an act of worship to me.
Then Jesus said to him,
without hesitation,
go away, Satan,
for it is written.
It is Jehovah your God, you must worship,
and it is to him alone,
you must render sacred service.
Then the devil left him,
and look, angels came
and began to minister to him.
See, right away,
third time, it is written.
Jesus was having nothing to do
with this offer of the kingdoms,
this imitation peace,
you'll have all the glory and rule.
And it's always boggle my mind
that this one who knew Jesus
and his prehuman existence
would have the audacity
to try to get him to bow down worship him
shows you if he's obviously insane.
Now, he wouldn't allow either
when they tried to make him an earthly king.
Jesus wasn't having any part of that.
They were thinking he can bring him peace,
but Jesus, there's no peace except
by Jehovah's way.
And the peace from God's kingdom
is so superior to anything
they could try to come up
with their imitation peace.
Here's why, think about this.
Jesus will remove the devil.
Jesus will remove human rulership.
Jesus will remove sin.
So the earth's peace will never again
be disturbed.
And I appreciate very much that
he's going to rid of all problems
and that includes undoing all causes of pain
and not just physical pain,
emotional pain as well.
Wonderful to look forward to
that time with that beautiful peace.
From our precious Father Jehovah
and His Son Jesus.
Now, in the following video,
see what convinced the sister
not to believe the world's promises
of peace.
My Father always taught me
that we need a God in our life
in order for there to be peace.
And He always wanted to know,
can Christians go to war?
How is this consistent
with the gospel of Jesus Christ?
But the pastor could never give us an answer.
And so I thought I'd have to look
to politics to find it.
A lot of peace movements were being
formed at that time.
So I joined one of them.
We decided where the protest marches
would be, which pamphlets we would use.
But after the protests were over,
everyone was so excited.
And they all started applauding
and cheering for the leaders.
I thought, that's not what I wanted.
I don't want to honor people.
I want to have world peace.
And that still hasn't happened yet.
Then I started to feel very alone.
And it made me feel unsafe in this world.
With no peace in sight,
I thought, what is the purpose of life?
While visiting friends for coffee,
I saw a man I'd never met before.
My friends told me he wanted to talk to us about the Bible.
So I asked him,
sir, what do you think?
Can Christians join the military?
And the man said, no, that's not allowed
because the Bible says you should love your enemy.
It made me think about what my father always said
that when he got to bring peace,
then a really nice lady came to my door
and she had an orange book in her hand.
And it said, true peace and security,
after reading it, I thought, this is it.
This is the organization that truly wants peace.
So I went to those involved in the peace movement.
I told them that I believe that God will change this world
into a beautiful earth where they'll be true peace.
They all looked at me like I had lost my mind.
I was so happy with my new life.
I felt like I was part of a family
who truly cared about one another
and really wanted peace with each other.
Isaiah 14 verse 7 had a major impact on my life
because there are God promises,
a calm and peaceful world.
Well, wasn't that nice how she learned?
She looked to politics and protest for a world peace.
Obviously, she was sincere, but she learned.
That's all imitation peace.
True peace and security comes from Jehovah God.
So wrapping it up with these three different types
of imitation peace that we've emphasized,
we want to encourage you in these last minutes
to safeguard the peace that Jesus has given you.
In John chapter 14, you know this,
but I want you to really focus on a particular point
in verse 6. Jesus said to him,
I am the way and the truth and the life.
No one comes to the Father except through me.
Isn't that beautiful?
Particularly when I emphasize,
Jesus is the truth.
We can trust all of His promises.
He is the truth.
He's going to give us peace,
already has,
and to a greater extent in the future.
Yes.
Our Master is the truth.
And he gave the early Christians that peace,
the things that they were able to deal with,
it's just mind-boggling.
We read Apostle Paul's experiences and Peters and others.
The persecution they endured,
and they did it,
the enduring with joy.
It's amazing.
They can only be a supernatural provision of peace.
And just to remember,
Jesus will likewise give you the peace you need now
to keep doing Jehovah's will.
And to make him happy.
So, brothers, please,
safeguard the gift of peace
that Jesus has given you.
Satan uses this world to offer you promises of imitation peace.
Do not be misled.
Now, rather, let the peace of the Christ rule in your hearts,
and show yourselves thankful.
Yes, through his Son,
Jehovah bless us all with peace forever.
Thank you, Brother Morris,
for strengthening our trust in Jesus' promise
to give us peace now
and during the events that will shortly take place.
The second section of our convention has truly helped us
to see how Jehovah blesses us with peace.
What can we look forward to in the next session?
The scripture theme will be from 2 Peter 3, 14.
Be found spotless and unblemished and in peace.
The program will begin with a symposium
that will help prepare us to share the good news of peace
at every opportunity.
Young ones can look forward to a special talk,
just for them, given by a member of the governing body.
We'll also see how brothers and sisters
are maintaining their peace,
even when suffering from illness,
economic problems, natural disasters,
and other difficulties.
And of course, our next session includes the baptism talk,
after which those who have been approved
will be baptized locally.
We have much to look forward to.
To conclude today's session,
let's sing Song No. 112 entitled Jehovah, God of Peace.
Again, that song No. 112.
After the song concludes,
you may have your own closing prayer.